Statistics :-
	1. It is analysis of Data.
	2. Mathematical Concept
	3. Can be used to make corporate decisions

Data and Variable:
	Data is a set of values of qualitative and quantitative variables that are of interest in a study.

	Variables are those aspects which affect an experiment and/or its result. It could be input and/or output for an experiment.

	2 types of variables :
		a) Numeric (Anything that can be measured and represented in number/quantity)
			I - Continuous :- temp, height (can take any value between a permitted range)
			II - Discrete :- number of kids(Whole values with a permitted range )
		b) Categorical (Qualitative values)
			I  - Ordinal :- Types of size (small, medium, Large), Types of temp(hot, mild, cold) - those categories which basically these can be ordered
			II - Nominal :- Gender(Male & Female), PinCode - These are categories but there is no order as such.

Sample and Population:
	Population is all the subjects in an experiment.
	Sample is a subset of population.

	Data collected from all the sujects (population) in an experiment is called census.

	To collect data or study the complete population could be highly expensive(cost, effort, time), error prone. That is why a sample is choosen for the study/experiment and inference is drawn about the whole population from the study. This is called inferential study -> statistics.

	When the whole population/Sample is considered and the data is used to summarize the population it is called Descriptive Statistics. It Describes the data as in what is the center of the data, how much the data is varies from the center etc.

Types of Data Analysis:
	a) Univariate: One variable is analyzed at a time.
		eg: what is the height of students in a class.
	b) Bivariate: Two variables are analyzed together to see if there is any relation between them.
		eg: what is height of the student and how old is the student.
	c) Multivariate: More than 2 variable are considered and relation is analyzed among them.
		eg: What is the height, how old and from which region is the student.

Descriptive Statistics:
	Central Tendency:
		1) Mean/Average - Sum of Values/total number of values. Outliers  affect this.
		2) Mode - maximum repeating(Frequency) value
		3) Median - Middle value(50th Percentile) of an ordered list of values. Outliers doesn't effect this.
